[OSDOCS-15258] Adds evpn-udn docs (#109142)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/procedure-enabling-bgp-evpn-primary-cudn.adoc

Reviewer: Would it be better if we add the step for a Managed VTEP commented out so that it is readily available to un-comment when we add support?

Author: @jcaamano I originally had a step for this, but it messes up the the sequential numbering in the steps, even if it's hidden. I'll add this hidden at the bottom with the expectation that it'll be moved later, and hope it doesn't mess something up in a following module (which can happen...). Here's a link: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/109142/changes/3cd75e7aa5e478cb013200956ed80589adba0760#diff-f6fcf231f89fab9439d6b4ed3d5fda69ca2dec7f28f86599403ae89b0d926e97R390-R408

Reviewer: No worries, I wouldn't risk it. It was just a suggestion in case it made our life easier but it looks like it will not.

Reviewer 2: One thing I am noticing in this file is that there are mentions of objects/specs where you use the name of the thing as a noun itself, instead of as an adjective for a noun (for example, "`nodeSelector`" instead of "the `nodeSelector` field" or whatever you'd use instead of field).

Up to you, but I would suggest adding nouns wherever possible so these backtick terms don't stand on their own.

Author: Forever a challenge with networking docs

> // Draft procedure module — not wired into _topic_map.yml.

Reviewer: draft?

* For unmanaged `VTEP`:
** You have determined which IPv4 CIDR identifies a valid VTEP source address for each node.
** You have determined a plan for how each node gets an address in that CIDR. For example, the address is already present on the host, or configured by automation, or applied with NMState. Note that until each participating node has such an address, the `VTEP` object may not reach a ready state.
** The Kubernetes NMState Operator is available if you choose the NNCP option for unmanaged VTEP addresses.
* You have set up labels so a `namespaceSelector` can match namespaces that should use the CUDN.

.Procedure

. Enable FRR-K8s and route advertisements in the Cluster Network Operator configuration by entering the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch networks.operator.openshift.io cluster --type=merge -p '{
  "spec": {
    "additionalRoutingCapabilities": {
      "providers": ["FRR"]
    },
    "defaultNetwork": {
      "ovnKubernetesConfig": {
        "routeAdvertisements": "Enabled"
      }
    }
  }
}'
----

> . Create an `FRRConfiguration` object that defines BGP neighbors and EVPN-related configuration toward your provider fabric. Use a descriptive label so `RouteAdvertisements` can select this configuration in a subequent step. For example:

Reviewer: typo `subsequent`

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: frrk8s.metallb.io/v1beta1
kind: FRRConfiguration
metadata:
  name: <frrconfiguration_evpn_name>
  namespace: openshift-frr-k8s
  labels:
    advertise: <evpn_label>
spec:
  bgp:
    routers:
      - asn: <cluster_asn>
        neighbors:
          - address: <peer_address>
            asn: <peer_asn>

>             # Add EVPN and other address-family configuration required by your environment.

Reviewer: There is nothing else really needed, and specifically nothing related to EVPN. Not sure exactly what you mean with this.

Author: Removed.

----

. Create a `VTEP` object using either `managed` or `unmanaged` mode depending on whether OVN-Kubernetes should allocate a VTEP address per node or use an address that you or the fabric provider have already placed on the host.

* Create a `VTEP` object in `managed` mode. When using `managed` mode, OVN-Kubernetes assigns a VTEP IPv4 for each node from a dedicated CIDR you list in `spec.cidrs`. The CIDR must be IPv4. For example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: k8s.ovn.org/v1
kind: VTEP
metadata:
  name: <evpn_vtep_name>
spec:
  mode: managed
  cidrs:
    - <vtep_cidr>
----

* Create a `VTEP` object in `unmanaged` mode. When using `unmanaged` mode, OVN-Kubernetes does not allocate a VTEP address. The controller searches the host for a suitable interface and uses an address that is already on the node and falls within `spec.cidrs`. The CIDR is typically a range that you share with the EVPN provider such as the machine network, or a dedicated VTEP pool that is already configured on the node.
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: k8s.ovn.org/v1
kind: VTEP
metadata:
  name: <evpn_vtep_name>
spec:
  mode: unmanaged
  cidrs:
    - <vtep_cidr>
----

> ** Optional. If you are creating a `VTEP` object in `unmanaged` mode and the address is not already on the node when you need it, you can add it with a `NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy` (NNCP) object from the Kubernetes NMState Operator. Create a policy that configures an interface, commonly a loopback or a secondary address, so the node has an IPv4 in the VTEP CIDR. Wait for NMState to enact the change on every worker you expect to host EVPN workloads, then create or re-check the `VTEP` object. Use the following `NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy` manifest as a template. Note that the `name`, `nodeSelector`, and `desiredState` must match your hosts and the NMState API for your {product-title} version.

Reviewer: It's implied but it might be worth to mention explicitly you can use any address that is already set on the interface that will carry the EVPN vxlan underlay, like the normal node IP/subnet if the underlay uses the primary interface. 
But that loopback/dummy interfaces are commonly used and better suited for multihoming and failover scenarios.
For now we just support using primary addresses. Which means using addresses the node already had as primary or creating a dummy interface with that address as primary.

Also `loopback or a secondary address` doesn't work well together. You can say `configures a dummy interface `

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: nmstate.io/v1
kind: NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy
metadata:
  name: <evpn_vtep_address>
spec:
  nodeSelector: <node_selector>

>   desiredState: <desired_state>

Reviewer: Probably worth it to have a complete example here:

```
    desiredState: 
      interfaces:                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
        - name: evpn-vtep-lo
          type: dummy                                                                                                                                                                                                               
          state: up
          ipv4:                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
            enabled: true
            address:
              - ip: 100.64.0.1
                prefix-length: 32                                                                                                                                                                                                   
            dhcp: false
          ipv6:                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
            enabled: false
```

Author: Fixed

--

** Optional. Apply the `NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy` object by entering the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f <nncp_evpn_vtep_address_name>.yaml
----

. Apply the `VTEP` object by entering the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f <vtep_evpn_name>.yaml
----

. Create a layer 2 or layer 3 primary `ClusterUserDefinedNetwork` object that sets `transport: EVPN` and `evpnConfiguration` that references the `VTEP` and sets VNIs and optional route targets.

** Create a layer 2 primary CUDN object using the following example as a template:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: k8s.ovn.org/v1
kind: ClusterUserDefinedNetwork
metadata:
  name: <l2_cudn_name>
  labels:
    advertise: <evpn_label>
spec:
  namespaceSelector:
    matchLabels:
      kubernetes.io/metadata.name: <namespace_label_value>
  network:
    topology: Layer2
    layer2:
      role: Primary
      subnets:
        - <cudn_subnet>
  transport: EVPN
  evpnConfiguration:
    vtep: evpn-vtep
    macVRF:
      vni: <mac_vrf_vni>
      routeTarget: <mac_vrf_rt>
    ipVRF:
      vni: <ip_vrf_vni>

>       routeTarget: <ip_vrf_rt>

Reviewer: should be
```
spec:
  namespaceSelector:
    matchLabels:
      kubernetes.io/metadata.name: <namespace_label_value>
  network:
    topology: Layer2
    layer2:
      role: Primary
      subnets:
        - <cudn_subnet>
    transport: EVPN
    evpn:
      vtep: evpn-vtep
      macVRF:
        vni: <mac_vrf_vni>
        routeTarget: <mac_vrf_rt>
      ipVRF:
        vni: <ip_vrf_vni>
        routeTarget: <ip_vrf_rt>
```

Author: Fixed.

>       routeTarget: <ip_vrf_rt>

Reviewer: The `ipVRF` is optional for layer 2 networks. So perhaps we should describe the option without it, along with what it does

----
+
where:
+
--

> `<l2_cudn_name>`:: Specifies the name of the layer 2`ClusterUserDefinedNetwork` object.

Reviewer: space missing between `2` and `ClusterUserDefinedNetwork`

`<evpn_label>`:: Specifies a label so that the `FRRConfiguration` object can be selected by the `RouteAdvertisements` object.
`<namespace_label_value>`:: Specifies the value of the label so that the CUDN applies to the namespace or namespaces that you expect to host EVPN workloads.
`<cudn_subnet>`:: Specifies the subnet for the CUDN.
`<mac_vrf_vni>`:: Specifies the VNI for the MAC VRF.
`<mac_vrf_rt>`:: Specifies the route target for the MAC VRF.
`<ip_vrf_vni>`:: Specifies the VNI for the IP VRF.
`<ip_vrf_rt>`:: Specifies the route target for the IP VRF.
--

** Create a layer 3 primary CUDN object using the following example as a template:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: k8s.ovn.org/v1
kind: ClusterUserDefinedNetwork
metadata:
  name: <l3_cudn_name>
  labels:
    advertise: <evpn_label>
spec:
  namespaceSelector:
    matchLabels:
      kubernetes.io/metadata.name: <namespace_label_value>
  topology: Layer3
  layer3:
    role: Primary
    subnets:
      - cidr: <cudn_subnet>
        hostSubnet: 24
  transport: EVPN
  evpnConfiguration:
    vtep: evpn-vtep
    ipVRF:

>       vni: <ip_vrf_vni>

Reviewer: should be
```
spec:
  namespaceSelector:
    matchLabels:
      kubernetes.io/metadata.name: <namespace_label_value>
  network:  
    topology: Layer3
    layer3:
      role: Primary
      subnets:
        - cidr: <cudn_subnet>
          hostSubnet: 24
    transport: EVPN
    evpn:
      vtep: evpn-vtep
      ipVRF:
        vni: <ip_vrf_vni>
```

Author: Fixed.

+
--
`<l3_cudn_name>`:: Specifies the name of the layer 3 `ClusterUserDefinedNetwork` object.
`<evpn_label>`:: Specifies a label so that the `FRRConfiguration` object and `ClusterUserDefinedNetwork` object can be selected by the `RouteAdvertisements` object.
`<namespace_label_value>`:: Specifies the value of the label so that the CUDN applies to the namespace or namespaces that you expect to host EVPN workloads.
`<cudn_subnet>`:: Specifies the subnet for the CUDN.
`<ip_vrf_vni>`:: Specifies the VNI for the IP VRF.
--

. Apply the `ClusterUserDefinedNetwork` object by entering the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f <cudn_name>.yaml
----

. Create a `RouteAdvertisements` object that selects the labeled `FRRConfiguration` object, the labeled `ClusterUserDefinedNetwork` object, and advertises the pod network for EVPN. For example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: k8s.ovn.org/v1
kind: RouteAdvertisements
metadata:
  name: advertise-evpn-cudns
spec:
  targetVRF: auto
  advertisements:
    - PodNetwork
  networkSelectors:
    - networkSelectionType: ClusterUserDefinedNetworks
      clusterUserDefinedNetworkSelector:
        networkSelector:
          matchLabels:

>             advertise: evpn

Reviewer: Shouldn't this match the placeholder label you have in the CUDNs examples:
```
  labels:
    advertise: <evpn_label>
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/advanced_networking/bgp_evpn_udn/about-bgp-evpn-user-defined-networks.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="nw-enabling-bgp-evpn-primary-cudn_{context}"]
= Enabling BGP EVPN on a primary cluster user-defined network

[role="_abstract"]
To connect your primary cluster user-defined network (CUDN) to an external BGP EVPN fabric in {product-title}, you can enable FRR-K8s and route advertisements in the Cluster Network Operator configuration.

> By integrating BGP EVPN with primary CUDNs, you can attach the cluster to virtual machines (VMs) or physical hosts on an external EVPN fabric, migrate VMs onto the platform while keeping IP and MAC reachability, align with an existing EVPN data center and native fabric integration, or connect overlapping user-defined network address spaces to different external networks while preserving isolation.

Reviewer: `you can enable FRR-K8s and route advertisements in the Cluster Network Operator configuration` how? See https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/109142#discussion_r3200618590

Isn't this more fitting to the about section?
```
By integrating BGP EVPN with primary CUDNs, you can attach the cluster to virtual machines (VMs) or physical hosts on an external EVPN fabric, migrate VMs onto the platform while keeping IP and MAC reachability, align with an existing EVPN data center and native fabric integration, or connect overlapping user-defined network address spaces to different external networks while preserving isolation.
```

I am not sure if you would be interested in an intro to the procedure itself. AI suggested
```
  To attach a primary cluster user-defined network (CUDN) to an external BGP EVPN fabric, you need to establish BGP peering with the fabric, assign a VXLAN tunnel endpoint (VTEP) address on each node so it can send and receive  
  encapsulated traffic, define the network with the VPN identifiers that map it to the correct EVPN segments on the fabric and configure route advertisements so that the pod network is announced to external peers and  
  they learn how to reach your workloads.
```

////
Two common patterns for the `VTEP` are *Managed* mode (OVN-Kubernetes allocates an address from a dedicated IPv4 CIDR) and *Unmanaged* mode (the node already has an address in the CIDR on some interface, and OVN-Kubernetes *discovers* that address, for example via netlink, instead of assigning it). For Unmanaged mode you can pre-provision that address with a `NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy` (NNCP) from the Kubernetes NMState Operator, or the address can already be present (for example when the CIDR is your node network and the node’s primary address lies inside the range). Choose one path in the *Create a* `VTEP` *object* step.
////

.Prerequisites

* The {product-title} cluster runs on bare-metal infrastructure and meets the support statement for BGP EVPN with primary CUDNs in your {product-title} version.
* The {product-title} cluster uses local gateway mode.

> * The `spec.defaultNetwork.ovnKubernetesConfig.gatewayConfig.routingViaHost` field is `true` in the `Network` custom resource.

Reviewer: Previously you had a step to set additionalRoutingCapabilities.providers: ["FRR"] and routeAdvertisements: "Enabled".

Where did that go? Am I missing a reference somewhere? Since I suggested referenceing the RouteAdvertisements documentation in https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/109142#discussion_r3200143040 I think we can follow the same pattern with a prerequiste and making a reference to 7.2. Enabling route advertisements

Author: Done.

* You have logged in to the {product-title} cluster as an administrator.

> * You have the autonomous system numbers (ASNs), BGP neighbor addresses, expected VPN identifiers (VNIs), and route targets if you set them explicitly. If you omit route targets, the implementation derives default values from your ASN and VNI.

Reviewer: FYI VNI does not stand for VPN Identifier, it stands for Virtual Network Identifier. Nothing particularly wrong as VNIs can be understood as VPN identifiers in the general sense. Just a thought. 

Also worth mentioning that VNIs they must be unique and not reused across multiple IP-VRF/MAC-VRF

Author: Fixed it.

////
* For Managed `VTEP`:
** You have an IPv4 CIDR reserved for VTEP addresses that does not overlap conflicting address uses in the cluster, and that is routable on the underlay so remote VTEPs can encapsulate to your nodes. IPv6 VTEP CIDRs are unsupported.
////
* For Unmanaged `VTEP`:
** You have determined which IPv4 CIDR identifies a valid VTEP source address for each node.
** You have determined a plan for how each node gets an address in that CIDR. For example, the address is already present on the host, or configured by automation, or applied with NMState. Note that until each participating node has such an address, the `VTEP` object may not reach a ready state.
** The Kubernetes NMState Operator is available if you choose the NNCP option for Unmanaged VTEP addresses.
* You have configured labels so that a `namespaceSelector` can match namespaces that should use the CUDN.

.Procedure

> . Create an `FRRConfiguration` object that establishes BGP peering and EVPN-related configuration toward your provider network. 

Reviewer: omit `EVPN-related configuration`

.. Use the following example as a template when creating the `FRRConfiguration` object. Use a descriptive label so `RouteAdvertisements` can select this configuration in a subsequent step.
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: frrk8s.metallb.io/v1beta1
kind: FRRConfiguration
metadata:
  name: <frrconfiguration_evpn_name>
  namespace: openshift-frr-k8s
  labels:
    <frr_label_key>: <frr_label_value>
spec:
  nodeSelector: {}
  bgp:
    routers:
      - asn: <cluster_asn>
        neighbors:
          - address: <peer_address>
            asn: <peer_asn>
----
+
where:
+
--
`<frrconfiguration_evpn_name>`:: Specifies the name of the `FRRConfiguration` object.

> `<frr_label_key>` and `<frr_label_value>`:: Specifies a label key and value on the `FRRConfiguration` object that must match `frrConfigurationSelector.matchLabels` in the `RouteAdvertisements` object. The manifest must define at least one BGP router in the default VRF. The controller reads neighbors from that router to enable EVPN toward the fabric.

Reviewer: ... The manifest must define at least one BGP router in the default VRF that will act as the EVPN underlay. Multiple routers can be defined for redundancy...

Author: Added.

`<evpn_vtep_name>`:: Specifies the name of the `VTEP` object.

`Unmanaged`:: Must be set to `Unmanaged` mode. `Managed` mode is unsupported for this release.

`<vtep_cidr>`:: Specifies the IPv4 range that the controller uses to discover a VTEP address on each node. Coordinate this range with your EVPN provider, for example by using the machine network or a dedicated VTEP pool that is already configured on the node. For constraints on which address to use on each node, see the following note.
--
+
[NOTE]
====
In `Unmanaged` mode, OVN-Kubernetes does not allocate an address. Only primary addresses are supported. The controller uses an address that is already the primary address on an interface, including one that you create as the primary on a dedicated interface such as a dummy interface.

Using the node's host or management IP as the VTEP IP should be avoided. Assign the VTEP primary address to an interface without a physical link carrier, such as a dummy device, so the address stays up when a physical link goes down. That behavior supports EVPN multihoming and mass withdrawal failover.

Loopback and dummy interfaces are common choices for that carrier-independent primary address.

> ====

Reviewer: Don't mention Loopback because it won't work.

Use of terminology like "EVPN provider" or "VTEP pool" might leave the user wondering what those are, as I do.

I would be more explicit and concise. These are the facts:

- Each node needs an IP address from `<vtep_cidr>` configured as the primary address of an interface.
- These IP addresses are "discovered" by OVN-Kubernetes when configured as the primary address of an interface, used as the VTEP IP for the respective node, and advertised on the BGP EVPN underlay so that they are reachable.
- Using an interface associated with a physical link carrier is not recommended and must be avoided when using redundant BGP peering. It is recommended to use a dummy interface where the IP is configured as primary address. 
- I would inlcude the NMState configuration sample that I provided you with as a potential option to configure the IP on a node.

I am not saying this is how it should be expressed, but it is not as clear to me when I read your description vs my explanation above.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get vtep
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME           ACCEPTED   REASON
<vtep_name>    True       Allocated
----
+
If `Accepted` is `False`, see "Troubleshooting BGP EVPN CRs for primary cluster user-defined networks".

. Create a `RouteAdvertisements` object. 

.. Use the following example as a template when creating the `RouteAdvertisements` object. Ensure that the `RouteAdvertisements` object selects a labeled `FRRConfiguration` object and labeled primary `ClusterUserDefinedNetwork` objects so that the pod network is advertised for EVPN.
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: k8s.ovn.org/v1
kind: RouteAdvertisements
metadata:
  name: <routeadvertisements_evpn_name>
spec:
  targetVRF: auto
  advertisements:
    - PodNetwork
  nodeSelector: {}
  frrConfigurationSelector:
    matchLabels:
      <frr_label_key>: <frr_label_value>
  networkSelectors:
    - networkSelectionType: ClusterUserDefinedNetworks
      clusterUserDefinedNetworkSelector:
        networkSelector:
          matchLabels:
            <cudn_label_key>: <cudn_label_value>
----
+
where:
+
--

> `<routeadvertisements_name>`:: Specifies the name of the `RouteAdvertisements` object.

Reviewer: `<routeadvertisements_name>` does not match `<routeadvertisements_evpn_name>` that you are using in the example yaml

> `<target_vrf>`:: Specifies the target VRF for advertisements. Defaults to `auto`.

Reviewer: `<target_vrf>` is not a variable. It must be set to `auto`.

.. Apply the `RouteAdvertisements` object by entering the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f <routeadvertisements_evpn_name>.yaml
----

.. Verify that the `RouteAdvertisements` CR is created and accepted by entering the following command. A healthy `RouteAdvertisements` CR reports `Accepted: True` and `Reason: Accepted`.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get routeadvertisements <routeadvertisements_name>
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                          ACCEPTED   REASON
<routeadvertisements_name>    True       Accepted
----
+
If `Accepted` is `False`, see "Troubleshooting BGP EVPN CRs for primary cluster user-defined networks".

. Create a Layer 2 or Layer 3 primary `ClusterUserDefinedNetwork` object that sets `transport: EVPN` and `evpnConfiguration` that references the `VTEP` and sets VNIs and optional route targets.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
You cannot retroactively enable EVPN on an existing `ClusterUserDefinedNetwork` object whose specification is immutable. You must create a new `ClusterUserDefinedNetwork` object for EVPN workloads instead.
====

> .. Create a Layer 2 primary CUDN object across the EVPN network as a MAC-VRF. Pods on different nodes and external entities. Use the following example as a template:

Reviewer: `Pods on different nodes and external entities` incomplete sentence?

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: k8s.ovn.org/v1
kind: ClusterUserDefinedNetwork
metadata:
  name: <l2_cudn_name>
  labels:
    <cudn_label_key>: <cudn_label_value>
spec:
  namespaceSelector:
    matchLabels:
      kubernetes.io/metadata.name: <namespace_label_value>
  network:
    topology: Layer2
    layer2:
      role: Primary
      subnets:
        - <cudn_subnet>
    transport: EVPN
    evpn:

>       vtep: evpn-vtep

Reviewer: You should use `vtep: <evpn_vtep_name>` in this and all other examples and explain that this is referencing the vtep defined in the previous step.

Author: Got it; I thought this was the default.

      macVRF:
        vni: <mac_vrf_vni>
        routeTarget: <mac_vrf_rt>

>       ipVRF:

Reviewer: Remove `ipVRF`

+
[source,yaml]
----
# ...
    evpn:
      vtep: evpn-vtep
      macVRF:
        vni: <mac_vrf_vni>
        routeTarget: <mac_vrf_rt>
      ipVRF:
        vni: <ip_vrf_vni>
        routeTarget: <ip_vrf_rt>
# ...
----
+
where:
+
--
`<ip_vrf_vni>`:: Specifies the VNI for the IP VRF, for example, `101`.
`<ip_vrf_rt>`:: Specifies the route target for the IP VRF, for example, `65000:101`.
--

.. Create a Layer 3 primary CUDN object that uses routing via the IP-VRF. In the following example, each node has its own Layer 2 domain. Inter-node communication uses EVPN Type 5 routes. Use the following example as a template:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: k8s.ovn.org/v1
kind: ClusterUserDefinedNetwork
metadata:
  name: <l3_cudn_name>
  labels:
    <cudn_label_key>: <cudn_label_value>
spec:
  namespaceSelector:
    matchLabels:
      kubernetes.io/metadata.name: <namespace_label_value>
  network:  
    topology: Layer3
    layer3:
      role: Primary
      subnets:
        - cidr: <cudn_subnet>
          hostSubnet: 24
    transport: EVPN
    evpn:
      vtep: evpn-vtep
      ipVRF:

>         vni: <ip_vrf_vni>

Reviewer: Add `routeTarget: <ip_vrf_rt>`

`<cudn_subnet>`:: Specifies the subnet for the CUDN, for example, `10.0.20.0/16`.
`<ip_vrf_vni>`:: Specifies the VNI for the IP VRF, for example, `200`.
--

.. Apply the Layer 2 or Layer 3 `ClusterUserDefinedNetwork` object by entering the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f <cudn_name>.yaml
----

.. Verify that the `ClusterUserDefinedNetwork` CR is created and accepted by entering the following command. A healthy `ClusterUserDefinedNetwork` CR reports `Accepted: True` and `Reason: EVPNTransportAccepted`.
+
Check the `ClusterUserDefinedNetwork` status by entering the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get clusteruserdefinednetwork <clusteruserdefinednetwork_name> -o \
    custom-columns='NAME:.metadata.name,ACCEPTED:.status.conditions[?(@.type=="clusteruserdefinednetwork")].status,REASON:.status.conditions[?(@.type=="clusteruserdefinednetwork")].reason'
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                                ACCEPTED   REASON
<clusteruserdefinednetwork_name>    True       EVPNTransportAccepted
----
+
If `Accepted` is `False`, check that the referenced `VTEP` CR exists and is itself accepted.

.Verification

> * Pods in a selected namespace can reach peers on the same CUDN and, where your design allows, endpoints on the external EVPN fabric.

Author: @jcaamano I might want better/clearer Verification steps?

Reviewer: I think this along with the verification for each step as I suggest in https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/109142#discussion_r3200758815 is enough.

////

.Prerequisites

* The {product-title} cluster runs on bare-metal infrastructure and meets the support statement for BGP EVPN with primary CUDNs in your {product-title} version.
* The {product-title} cluster uses local gateway mode.
* You have enabled FRR-K8s in the Cluster Network Operator configuration. For more information, see "About route advertisements".
* You have enabled route advertisements in the Cluster Network Operator configuration. For more information, see "Enabling route advertisements".
* You have logged in to the {product-title} cluster as an administrator.
* You have the autonomous system numbers (ASNs), BGP neighbor addresses, expected virtual network identifiers (VNIs), and route targets if you set them explicitly. If you omit route targets, the implementation derives default values from your ASN and VNI.
** VNIs must be unique and unused across multiple IP-VRF or MAC-VRF instances.
////
* For Managed `VTEP`:

> ** You have an IPv4 CIDR reserved for VTEP addresses that does not overlap conflicting address uses in the cluster, and that is routable on the underlay so remote VTEPs can encapsulate to your nodes. IPv6 VTEP CIDRs are unsupported.

Reviewer 3: use "overlap" or "conflict", not both at same time?

Reviewer 3: how about this? :
"Ensure the IPv4 CIDR reserved for VTEP addresses is unique and does not conflict with any existing address used in the cluster. This CIDR must be routable on the underlay to allow remote VTEPs to encapsulate traffic to your nodes. Note that IPv6 VTEP CIDRs are currently unsupported."

Author: @jechen0648 Yes that sounds good, but to clarify: 

Managed VTEPs aren't supported with this release AFAIK; I will update this content, but it will not be seen by customers. Right now, I'm hiding it with the four dashes (`////`) that surround it and keeping it for the future. I suspect a new PR will be made when we implement Managed VTEPs.

----

. Create a `VTEP` object in `Unmanaged` mode. The `VTEP` custom resource defines VXLAN tunnel endpoint (VTEP) IPs.

.. Use the following example as a template when creating the `VTEP` object:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: k8s.ovn.org/v1
kind: VTEP
metadata:
  name: <evpn_vtep_name>
spec:
  mode: Unmanaged
  cidrs:
    - <vtep_cidr>
----
+
where:
+
--
`<evpn_vtep_name>`:: Specifies the name of the `VTEP` object.

`Unmanaged`:: Must be set to `Unmanaged` mode. `Managed` mode is unsupported for this release.

`<vtep_cidr>`:: Specifies an IPv4 prefix that includes the VTEP primary address on each participating node. On every such node, configure one IPv4 address from this range as the primary address on an interface. OVN-Kubernetes discovers that address and uses it as the VTEP IP for that node. For how the address is used and how to configure the interface, see the following note.
--
+
[NOTE]
====
In `Unmanaged` mode, OVN-Kubernetes does not allocate a VTEP address. Consider the following when configuring the VTEP IP:

* Each node needs one IPv4 address from `<vtep_cidr>` configured as the primary address of an interface on that node.

> * OVN-Kubernetes discovers the IPv4 address configured on the interface and uses it as the VTEP IP for that node. The VTEP IP must be advertised on the BGP EVPN underlay so that it is reachable from other nodes.

Reviewer: ```
The VTEP IP must be advertised on the BGP EVPN underlay so that it is reachable from other nodes
```
This is confusing because it gives the impression the user must to this. OVN-Kubernetes does this.

Author: Fixed.

* Do not use an interface associated with a physical link carrier. Instead, use a dummy interface where the IP is configured as the primary address.

See the following optional step to configure a dummy interface and assign a primary IPv4 address from `<vtep_cidr>` by using the Kubernetes NMState Operator.
====

... Optional. Configure a dummy interface with a `NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy` (NNCP) object from the Kubernetes NMState Operator. Assign a primary IPv4 address on it that falls within the VTEP CIDR. Use the following manifest as a template.
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: nmstate.io/v1
kind: NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy
metadata:
  name: <nncp_evpn_vtep_name>
spec:
  nodeSelector: <node_selector>
  desiredState:
    interfaces:
      - name: <evpn_vtep_dummy_name>
        type: dummy
        state: up
        ipv4:
          enabled: true
          address:
            - ip: <vtep_ipv4>
              prefix-length: 32
          dhcp: false
        ipv6:
          enabled: false
----
+
where:
+
--
`<nncp_evpn_vtep_name>`:: Specifies the name of the `NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy` object.

> `<node_selector>`:: Specifies a `nodeSelector` so the policy applies to the node or nodes you expect to host EVPN workloads.

Reviewer: This node selector should probably be `nodeSelector: {}` aligned to FRRConfiguration and RouteAdvertisemets nodeSelector since it bascially meant to be configured on all nodes.

Author: Fixed

`<evpn_vtep_dummy_name>`:: Specifies the name for the dummy device on the node.

> `spec.desiredState`:: Specifies an NMState `desiredState` that assigns an address from `<vtep_cidr>` to an interface on the node.

Reviewer: Probably explanation for `spec.desiredState` is redundant, as it is the whole point of the full sample itself.

And a reference to the NMState operator documentation woudl also help.

Author: Removed.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f <nncp_evpn_vtep_name>.yaml
----

.. Apply the `VTEP` object by entering the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f <evpn_vtep_name>.yaml
----

.. Verify that the `VTEP` CR is created and accepted by entering the following command. A healthy VTEP has a valid VTEP IP and reports `Accepted: True` and `Reason: Allocated`.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get vtep
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME           ACCEPTED   REASON
<evpn_vtep_name>    True       Allocated
----
+
If `Accepted` is `False`, check node annotations. 

. Create a `RouteAdvertisements` object. 

.. Use the following example as a template when creating the `RouteAdvertisements` object. Ensure that the `RouteAdvertisements` object selects a labeled `FRRConfiguration` object and labeled primary `ClusterUserDefinedNetwork` objects so that the pod network is advertised for EVPN.
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: k8s.ovn.org/v1
kind: RouteAdvertisements
metadata:
  name: <routeadvertisements_evpn_name>
spec:
  targetVRF: auto
  advertisements:
    - PodNetwork
  nodeSelector: {}

>   frrConfigurationSelector:

Reviewer: It might still be worth it to include a small explanation on why this needs to be set this way.

`targetVRF: auto`: is because each CUDN is advertised in its own IP-VRF by design

 ```
   advertisements:
    - PodNetwork
```
is because only pod IPs can be advertised, and EgressIP advertisements are not supported for EVPN as is already described in the limitations

`nodeSelector: {}` is because pod IPs advertismenets are only supported from all nodes. This is not EVPN specific, it is a general limitation of RouteAdvertisements.

`<cudn_label_key>` and `<cudn_label_value>`:: Specifies a label key and value on the `ClusterUserDefinedNetwork` object that must match `networkSelectors.clusterUserDefinedNetworkSelector.networkSelector.matchLabels` in the `RouteAdvertisements` object. For example, the key `evpn` with the value `enabled` selects every CUDN labeled `evpn: enabled`.
--
+
For IP-VRF primary CUDNs, if the `FRRConfiguration` defines a VRF-specific BGP router whose name matches the CUDN name, the IP-VRF EVPN router is derived from that router. If that router does not exist, the IP-VRF EVPN router is derived from the underlay (default VRF) router.

.. Apply the `RouteAdvertisements` object by entering the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f <routeadvertisements_evpn_name>.yaml
----

.. Verify that the `RouteAdvertisements` CR is created and accepted by entering the following command. A healthy `RouteAdvertisements` CR reports `Accepted: True` and `Reason: Accepted`.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get routeadvertisements <routeadvertisements_name>
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                          ACCEPTED   REASON

> <routeadvertisements_name>    True       Accepted

Reviewer: Using incosistent placeholders: `<routeadvertisements_evpn_name>` vs `<routeadvertisements_name>`

metadata:
  name: <l2_cudn_name>
  labels:
    <cudn_label_key>: <cudn_label_value>
spec:
  namespaceSelector:
    matchLabels:
      kubernetes.io/metadata.name: <namespace_label_value>
  network:
    topology: Layer2
    layer2:
      role: Primary
      subnets:
        - <cudn_subnet>
    transport: EVPN
    evpn:
      vtep: <evpn_vtep_name>
      macVRF:
        vni: <mac_vrf_vni>
        routeTarget: <mac_vrf_rt>
----
+
where:
+
--
`<l2_cudn_name>`:: Specifies the name of the Layer 2 `ClusterUserDefinedNetwork` object.

`<cudn_label_key>` and `<cudn_label_value>`:: Specifies a label key and value on the CUDN that must match `networkSelectors` in the `RouteAdvertisements` object.

`<namespace_label_value>`:: Specifies the value of the label so that the CUDN applies to the namespace or namespaces that you expect to host EVPN workloads.

`<cudn_subnet>`:: Specifies the subnet for the CUDN, for example, `10.0.10.0/24`.

`<evpn_vtep_name>`:: Specifies the `metadata.name` of the `VTEP` object that this CUDN uses for EVPN transport. It must match the name you set when you created the `VTEP` object.

`<mac_vrf_vni>`:: Specifies the VNI for the MAC VRF, for example, `100`.

> `<mac_vrf_rt>`:: Specifies the route target for the MAC VRF, for example, `65000:100`.

Reviewer: It may be worth it to mention that `<mac_vrf_rt>`|`<ip_vrf_rt>`(below) are optional. There is an assumed default described in the API docs.

Which also brings me to the next idea: do we usually include references to API documentation? Because I guess describing the describing one procedure can't possibly cover all the configuration alternatives and combinations.

Author: @jcaamano Sure I can include a link to those, I don't think that's an issue. Jason is working on generating those now. Can you please confirm: new API references will be included primarily in the CUDN API and a new (?) VTEP API? <-- not sure about the second part. 

Either way, when they're generated I can include a link to those docs.

Reviewer: Yup. The existing CUDN CRD is updated with EVPN specific fields and there is a new VTEP CRD.

--

.. Optional. Add an IP-VRF on top of the MAC-VRF. This enables Layer 3 routing for the same network, allowing pods to reach external routed destinations via the IP-VRF while maintaining Layer 2 reachability via the MAC VRF. Use the following example as a template:
+
[source,yaml]
----
# ...
    evpn:
      vtep: <evpn_vtep_name>
      macVRF:
        vni: <mac_vrf_vni>
        routeTarget: <mac_vrf_rt>
      ipVRF:
        vni: <ip_vrf_vni>
        routeTarget: <ip_vrf_rt>
# ...
----
+
where:
+
--
`<ip_vrf_vni>`:: Specifies the VNI for the IP VRF, for example, `101`.
`<ip_vrf_rt>`:: Specifies the route target for the IP VRF, for example, `65000:101`.
--

> .. Create a Layer 3 primary CUDN object that uses routing via the IP-VRF. In the following example, each node has its own Layer 2 domain. Inter-node communication uses EVPN Type 5 routes. Use the following example as a template:

Reviewer 3: Create a Layer 3 primary CUDN object that uses routing via the IP-VRF. In the following Layer 3 topology, each node maintains its own local Layer 2 domain (per-node subnets), and inter-node communication is handled via EVPN Type 5 routes to advertise these IP prefixes across the fabric.

Author: Updated.

////
Two common patterns for the `VTEP` are *Managed* mode (OVN-Kubernetes allocates an address from a dedicated IPv4 CIDR) and *Unmanaged* mode (the node already has an address in the CIDR on some interface, and OVN-Kubernetes *discovers* that address, for example via netlink, instead of assigning it). For Unmanaged mode you can pre-provision that address with a `NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy` (NNCP) from the Kubernetes NMState Operator, or the address can already be present (for example when the CIDR is your node network and the node’s primary address lies inside the range). Choose one path in the *Create a* `VTEP` *object* step.
////

.Prerequisites

* The {product-title} cluster runs on bare-metal infrastructure and meets the support statement for BGP EVPN with primary CUDNs in your {product-title} version.
* The {product-title} cluster uses local gateway mode.

> * You have enabled FRR-K8s in the Cluster Network Operator configuration. For more information, see "About route advertisements".

Reviewer: Probably remove this. The requirement just below implies this one and "Enabling route advertisements" has all the info.

* You have the autonomous system numbers (ASNs), BGP neighbor addresses, expected virtual network identifiers (VNIs), and route targets if you set them explicitly. If you omit route targets, the implementation derives default values from your ASN and VNI.
** VNIs must be unique and unused across multiple IP-VRF or MAC-VRF instances.
////
* For Managed `VTEP`:
** Ensure that the IPv4 CIDR reserved for VTEP addresses is unique and does not conflict with any existing address used in the cluster. This CIDR must be routable on the underlay to allow remote VTEPs to encapsulate traffic to your nodes. Note that IPv6 VTEP CIDRs are currently unsupported.
////
* For Unmanaged `VTEP`:
** You have determined which IPv4 CIDR identifies a valid VTEP source address for each node.
** You have determined a plan for how each node gets an address in that CIDR. For example, the address is already present on the host, or configured by automation, or applied with NMState. Note that until each participating node has such an address, the `VTEP` object may not reach a ready state.
** The Kubernetes NMState Operator is available if you choose the NNCP option for Unmanaged VTEP addresses.

> * You have configured labels so that a `namespaceSelector` can match namespaces that should use the CUDN.

Reviewer: Isn't this part of the procedure rather than a prequisite?

Author: I'm conflicted here because of the upfront information that some of the bullet points provide (though I think others could go). 

I've removed all of them except "** The Kubernetes NMState Operator is available if you choose the NNCP option for Unmanaged VTEP addresses."

.Procedure

. Create an `FRRConfiguration` object that establishes BGP peering toward your provider network. 

.. Use the following example as a template when creating the `FRRConfiguration` object. Use a descriptive label so `RouteAdvertisements` can select this configuration in a subsequent step.
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: frrk8s.metallb.io/v1beta1
kind: FRRConfiguration
metadata:
  name: <frrconfiguration_evpn_name>
  namespace: openshift-frr-k8s
  labels:
    <frr_label_key>: <frr_label_value>
spec:
  nodeSelector: {}
  bgp:
    routers:
      - asn: <cluster_asn>
        neighbors:
          - address: <peer_address>
            asn: <peer_asn>
----
+
where:
+
--
`<frrconfiguration_evpn_name>`:: Specifies the name of the `FRRConfiguration` object.

> `<frr_label_key>` and `<frr_label_value>`:: Specifies a label key and value on the `FRRConfiguration` object that must match `frrConfigurationSelector.matchLabels` in the `RouteAdvertisements` object. The manifest must define at least one BGP router in the default VRF that will act as the EVPN underlay. Multiple routers can be defined for redundancy. The controller reads neighbors from that router to enable EVPN toward the fabric.

Reviewer: It looks a bit weird to me that ` The manifest must define at least one BGP router in the default VRF that will act as the EVPN underlay. Multiple routers can be defined for redundancy. The controller reads neighbors from that router to enable EVPN toward the fabric.` is documented under the `<frr_label_key>` and `<frr_label_value>`::` field specifically. Maybe a matter of perspective but it would make sense to me that this is that same paragraph as `Create an `FRRConfiguration` object that establishes BGP peering toward your provider network.` or its own.

Also the mention of `controller` seems an implementation detail. `OVN-Kubernetes`?

Author: no problem

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: k8s.ovn.org/v1
kind: RouteAdvertisements
metadata:
  name: <routeadvertisements_evpn_name>
spec:
  targetVRF: auto
  advertisements:
    - PodNetwork
  nodeSelector: {}
  frrConfigurationSelector:
    matchLabels:
      <frr_label_key>: <frr_label_value>
  networkSelectors:
    - networkSelectionType: ClusterUserDefinedNetworks
      clusterUserDefinedNetworkSelector:
        networkSelector:
          matchLabels:
            <cudn_label_key>: <cudn_label_value>
----
+
where:
+
--
`spec.targetVRF`:: Specifies the target VRF. Each CUDN is advertised in its own IP-VRF by design.

`spec.advertisements`:: Specifies the advertisements to configure. Only pod IP advertisements are supported. Egress IP advertisements are not supported for EVPN.

`spec.nodeSelector`:: Specifies the nodes from which advertisements are propagated. Pod IP advertisements are supported only from all nodes. This limitation is not specific to EVPN and applies to `RouteAdvertisements` objects.

`<routeadvertisements_evpn_name>`:: Specifies the name of the `RouteAdvertisements` object.

> `<frr_label_key>` and `<frr_label_value>`:: Specifies a label key and value on the `FRRConfiguration` object that must match `frrConfigurationSelector.matchLabels` in the `RouteAdvertisements` object. The selected `FRRConfiguration` must define at least a default VRF BGP router; the controller uses neighbors from that router to enable EVPN for those peers.

Reviewer: `controller` -> `OVN-Kubernetes`?

[id="nw-enabling-bgp-evpn-primary-cudn_{context}"]
= Enabling BGP EVPN on a primary ClusterUserDefinedNetwork CR

[role="_abstract"]
To connect primary `ClusterUserDefinedNetwork` (CUDN) custom resource (CR) traffic to an external BGP EVPN fabric in {product-title}, you create `FRRConfiguration`, `VTEP`, `RouteAdvertisements`, and `ClusterUserDefinedNetwork` resources. Use these resources to establish BGP EVPN toward peers on your provider network and to advertise labeled CUDNs that use EVPN transport.

////
Two common patterns for the `VTEP` are *Managed* mode (OVN-Kubernetes allocates an address from a dedicated IPv4 CIDR) and *Unmanaged* mode (the node already has an address in the CIDR on some interface, and OVN-Kubernetes *discovers* that address, for example via netlink, instead of assigning it). For Unmanaged mode you can pre-provision that address with a `NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy` (NNCP) from the Kubernetes NMState Operator, or the address can already be present (for example when the CIDR is your node network and the node’s primary address lies inside the range). Choose one path in the *Create a* `VTEP` *object* step.
////

.Prerequisites

> * You have enabled route advertisements in the Cluster Network Operator configuration. For more information, see "Enabling route advertisements".

Reviewer: Oh, one other prerequisite I missed.

This is only supported when `routingViaHost` is set to `true` and `ipForwarding` is set to `Global`.

This doc describes those two configuration parameters:
https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/4.21/html/ovn-kubernetes_network_plugin/configuring-gateway

--
+
For IP-VRF primary CUDNs, if the `FRRConfiguration` defines a VRF-specific BGP router whose name matches the CUDN name, the IP-VRF EVPN router is derived from that router. If that router does not exist, the IP-VRF EVPN router is derived from the underlay (default VRF) router.

.. Apply the `RouteAdvertisements` object by entering the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f <routeadvertisements_evpn_name>.yaml
----

.. Verify that the `RouteAdvertisements` CR is created and accepted by entering the following command. A healthy `RouteAdvertisements` CR reports `Accepted: True` and `Reason: Accepted`.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get routeadvertisements -o \
    custom-columns='NAME:.metadata.name,ACCEPTED:.status.conditions[?(@.type=="Accepted")].status,REASON:.status.conditions[?(@.type=="Accepted")].reason'
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                               ACCEPTED   REASON
<routeadvertisements_evpn_name>    True       Accepted
----
+

> If `Accepted` is `False`, check that the `networkSelectors` field matches an existing `ClusterUserDefinedNetwork` resource, that the `frrConfigurationSelector` object matches an existing `FRRConfiguration` resource, and that the `FRRConfiguration` contains at least a default VRF router with neighbors.

Reviewer 3: If `Accepted` is `False`, check if the `networkSelectors` field matches an existing `ClusterUserDefinedNetwork` resource, if the `frrConfigurationSelector` object matches an existing `FRRConfiguration` resource, and if the `FRRConfiguration` contains at least a default VRF router with neighbors

somehow, I feel using "if" is better than using "that" in these 3 sentences

Author: @jechen0648 maybe...

In our docs, "Check that" is more commonly used than "Check if" when verifying a condition (~350 uses vs. 150 uses). 

I would prefer not to make this change, though neither are technically wrong; I would argue that "Check if" is more commonly used when things are more uncertain ("Check if the process is running.")

`<ip_vrf_vni>`:: Specifies the VNI for the IP VRF, for example, `200`.
`<ip_vrf_rt>`:: Optional. Specifies the route target for the IP VRF, for example, `65000:101`.
--

.. Apply the Layer 2 or Layer 3 `ClusterUserDefinedNetwork` object by entering the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f <clusteruserdefinednetwork_name>.yaml
----

.. Verify that the `ClusterUserDefinedNetwork` CR is created and accepted by entering the following command. A healthy `ClusterUserDefinedNetwork` CR reports `Accepted: True` and `Reason: EVPNTransportAccepted`.
+
Check the `ClusterUserDefinedNetwork` status by entering the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get clusteruserdefinednetwork <clusteruserdefinednetwork_name> -o \
    custom-columns='NAME:.metadata.name,ACCEPTED:.status.conditions[?(@.type=="clusteruserdefinednetwork")].status,REASON:.status.conditions[?(@.type=="clusteruserdefinednetwork")].reason'
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                                ACCEPTED   REASON
<clusteruserdefinednetwork_name>    True       EVPNTransportAccepted
----
+

> If `Accepted` is `False`, check that the referenced `VTEP` CR exists and is itself accepted.

Reviewer 3: similar here

If `Accepted` is `False`, check if the referenced `VTEP` CR exists and if itself is accepted.

Reviewer 3: others look good to me

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: k8s.ovn.org/v1
kind: VTEP
metadata:
  name: <evpn_vtep_name>
spec:
  mode: Unmanaged
  cidrs:
    - <vtep_cidr>
----
+
where:
+
--
`<evpn_vtep_name>`:: Specifies the name of the `VTEP` object.

`Unmanaged`:: Must be set to `Unmanaged` mode. `Managed` mode is unsupported for this release.

`<vtep_cidr>`:: Specifies an IPv4 prefix that includes the VTEP primary address on each participating node. On every such node, configure one IPv4 address from this range as the primary address on an interface. OVN-Kubernetes discovers that address and uses it as the VTEP IP for that node. For how the address is used and how to configure the interface, see the following note.
--
+
[NOTE]
====
In `Unmanaged` mode, OVN-Kubernetes does not allocate a VTEP address. Consider the following when configuring the VTEP IP:

* Each node needs one IPv4 address from `<vtep_cidr>` configured as the primary address of an interface on that node.

* OVN-Kubernetes discovers the IPv4 address configured on the interface and uses it as the VTEP IP for that node. OVN-Kubernetes then advertises the VTEP IP on the BGP EVPN underlay so that it is reachable from other nodes.

> * Do not use an interface associated with a physical link carrier. Instead, use a dummy interface where the IP is configured as the primary address.

Reviewer: I think we are missing a bit of detail here. What I had originally suggested is

```
Using an interface associated with a physical link carrier is not recommended and must be avoided when using redundant BGP peering. It is recommended to use a dummy interface where the IP is configured as primary address.
```

"not recommended" vs "Do not" does look different.
"redundant BGP peering" or "BGP peering redundancy" does hint the reason behind it, but we are leaving that completly out.

Author: @jcaamano Yeah the problem here really lies with the language "recommended". I should have explained: 

In general, IBM style guide doesn't want us (allow us?) to use the word **recommended**. Here's the rule in short: In most cases, avoid “recommending” that users do something, especially if the recommendation is vague or unexplained. Instead, describe why the action is problematic or beneficial.

So I have to revise this to avoid that specific word. Something like:

Avoid using an interface associated with a physical link carrier when using redundant BGP peering. Instead, use a dummy interface where the IP is configured as the primary address.

wdyt?

Reviewer: Sounds good

====

... Optional. Configure a dummy interface with a `NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy` (NNCP) object from the Kubernetes NMState Operator. Assign a primary IPv4 address on it that falls within the VTEP CIDR. Use the following manifest as a template.
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: nmstate.io/v1
kind: NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy
metadata:
  name: <nncp_evpn_vtep_name>
spec:
  nodeSelector: {}
  desiredState:
    interfaces:
      - name: <evpn_vtep_dummy_name>
        type: dummy
        state: up
        ipv4:
          enabled: true
          address:
            - ip: <vtep_ipv4>
              prefix-length: 32
          dhcp: false
        ipv6:
          enabled: false
----
+
where:
+
--
`<nncp_evpn_vtep_name>`:: Specifies the name of the `NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy` object.
`spec.nodeSelector`:: Specifies a `nodeSelector` so the policy applies to the node or nodes you expect to host EVPN workloads.
`<evpn_vtep_dummy_name>`:: Specifies the name for the dummy device on the node.
`<vtep_ipv4>`:: Specifies an IPv4 address from `<vtep_cidr>` for this node. Use a different address on each node.
--

> ... Apply the `NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy` object by entering the following command:

Reviewer: Other than just providing the sample NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy, I would just refer the user to this [docs](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/4.21/html-single/kubernetes_nmstate/index#virt-manage-nncp-cli_k8s-nmstate-updating-node-network-config) for reference on how to apply, which has complete instructions.

Author: @jcaamano I'm sorry--are you suggesting that I remove the NNCP example YAML + the step to apply it in favor of linking to the NNCP docs? or keeping that AND linking to it?

Reviewer: Keep the example, but remove the step to apply it. For how to apply and verify, link to NNCP docs.

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: k8s.ovn.org/v1
kind: ClusterUserDefinedNetwork
metadata:
  name: <l2_cudn_name>
  labels:
    <cudn_label_key>: <cudn_label_value>
spec:
  namespaceSelector:
    matchLabels:
      kubernetes.io/metadata.name: <namespace_label_value>
  network:
    topology: Layer2
    layer2:
      role: Primary
      subnets:
        - <cudn_subnet>
    transport: EVPN
    evpn:
      vtep: <evpn_vtep_name>
      macVRF:
        vni: <mac_vrf_vni>
        routeTarget: <mac_vrf_rt>
----
+
where:
+
--
`<l2_cudn_name>`:: Specifies the name of the Layer 2 `ClusterUserDefinedNetwork` object.

`<cudn_label_key>` and `<cudn_label_value>`:: Specifies a label key and value on the CUDN that must match `networkSelectors` in the `RouteAdvertisements` object.

`<namespace_label_value>`:: Specifies the value of the label so that the CUDN applies to the namespace or namespaces that you expect to host EVPN workloads.

`<cudn_subnet>`:: Specifies the subnet for the CUDN, for example, `10.0.10.0/24`.

`<evpn_vtep_name>`:: Specifies the `metadata.name` of the `VTEP` object that this CUDN uses for EVPN transport. It must match the name you set when you created the `VTEP` object.

> `<mac_vrf_vni>`:: Optional. Specifies the VNI for the MAC VRF, for example, `100`.

Reviewer: `mac_vrf_vni` is not Optional.

`<mac_vrf_rt>`:: Optional. Specifies the route target for the MAC VRF, for example, `65000:100`.
--

.. Optional. Add an IP-VRF on top of the MAC-VRF. This enables Layer 3 routing for the same network, allowing pods to reach external routed destinations via the IP-VRF while maintaining Layer 2 reachability via the MAC VRF. Use the following example as a template:
+
[source,yaml]
----
# ...
    evpn:
      vtep: <evpn_vtep_name>
      macVRF:
        vni: <mac_vrf_vni>
        routeTarget: <mac_vrf_rt>
      ipVRF:
        vni: <ip_vrf_vni>
        routeTarget: <ip_vrf_rt>
# ...
----
+
where:
+
--
`<ip_vrf_vni>`:: Specifies the VNI for the IP VRF, for example, `101`.

> `<ip_vrf_rt>`:: Specifies the route target for the IP VRF, for example, `65000:101`.

Reviewer: `<ip_vrf_rt>` is optional

metadata:
  name: <l3_cudn_name>
  labels:
    <cudn_label_key>: <cudn_label_value>
spec:
  namespaceSelector:
    matchLabels:
      kubernetes.io/metadata.name: <namespace_label_value>
  network:
    topology: Layer3
    layer3:
      role: Primary
      subnets:
        - cidr: <cudn_subnet>
          hostSubnet: 24
    transport: EVPN
    evpn:
      vtep: <evpn_vtep_name>
      ipVRF:
        vni: <ip_vrf_vni>
        routeTarget: <ip_vrf_rt>
----
+
where:
+
--
`<l3_cudn_name>`:: Specifies the name of the Layer 3 `ClusterUserDefinedNetwork` object.
`<cudn_label_key>` and `<cudn_label_value>`:: Specifies a label key and value on the CUDN that must match `networkSelectors` in the `RouteAdvertisements` object.
`<namespace_label_value>`:: Specifies the value of the label so that the CUDN applies to the namespace or namespaces that you expect to host EVPN workloads.
`<cudn_subnet>`:: Specifies the subnet for the CUDN, for example, `10.0.20.0/16`.
`<evpn_vtep_name>`:: Specifies the name of the `VTEP` object that this CUDN uses for EVPN transport. It must match the name you set when you created the `VTEP` object.
`<ip_vrf_vni>`:: Specifies the VNI for the IP VRF, for example, `200`.

> `<ip_vrf_rt>`:: Specifies the route target for the IP VRF, for example, `65000:101`.

Reviewer: `<ip_vrf_rt>` is Optional

Reviewer: Also since the `<ip_vrf_vni>` example value in the line above is 200, this example best be `65000:200`

** VNIs must be unique and unused across multiple IP-VRF or MAC-VRF instances.
////
* For Managed `VTEP`:

> ** Ensure that the IPv4 CIDR reserved for VTEP addresses is unique and does not conflict with any existing address used in the cluster. This CIDR must be routable on the underlay to allow remote VTEPs to encapsulate traffic to your nodes. Note that IPv6 VTEP CIDRs are currently unsupported.

Author: Hidden, but wanted to update according to Jean's comment.

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: nmstate.io/v1
kind: NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy
metadata:
  name: <nncp_evpn_vtep_name>
spec:
  nodeSelector: <node_selector>
  desiredState:
    interfaces:
      - name: <evpn_vtep_dummy_name>
        type: dummy
        state: up
        ipv4:
          enabled: true
          address:
            - ip: <vtep_ipv4>
              prefix-length: 32
          dhcp: false
        ipv6:
          enabled: false
----
+
where:
+
--
`<nncp_evpn_vtep_name>`:: Specifies the name of the `NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy` object.
`<node_selector>`:: Specifies a label so the policy applies to the node or nodes you expect to host EVPN workloads.
`spec.desiredState`:: Specifies an NMState `desiredState` that assigns an address from `<vtep_cidr>` to an interface on the node.
`<vtep_ipv4>`:: Specifies an IPv4 address from `<vtep_cidr>` for this node. Use a different address on each node.
--

... Apply the `NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy` object by entering the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f <nncp_evpn_vtep_name>.yaml
----

> 

Author: @jcaamano Please check these lines because it is the section I'm least confident about.

Reviewer 3: I never used nncp for VTEP,  not sure about this part

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get routeadvertisements <routeadvertisements_evpn_name>
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                               ACCEPTED   REASON

> <routeadvertisements_evpn_name>    True       Accepted

Reviewer: This output format is only going to show if you use a command like
```
oc get clusteruserdefinednetwork blue -o \
    custom-columns='NAME:.metadata.name,ACCEPTED:.status.conditions[?(@.type=="clusteruserdefinednetwork")].status,REASON:.status.conditions[?(@.type=="clusteruserdefinednetwork")].reason'
```

Author: Sure, updated.

<routeadvertisements_evpn_name>    True       Accepted
----
+

> If `Accepted` is `False`, check that the `frrConfigurationSelector` matches an existing `FRRConfiguration` object and that it contains at least a default VRF router with neighbors.

Author: @jcaamano Can you check this one? Before, it had ". . . and `netWork selectors match an existing `FRRConfiguration`. . .", but I don't think that `networkSelectors` would match to FRRConfiguration objects-- it would match to the CUDN, right? So if we want that detail, it would be...

If `Accepted` is `False`, check that the `frrConfigurationSelector` matches an existing `FRRConfiguration`, the `networkSelectors` object matches an existing `CUDN` resource, and that it contains at least a default VRF router with neighbors.

Reviewer: ```
If Accepted is False, check that the networkSelectors field matches an existing CUDN resource, and that
the frrConfigurationSelector matches an existing FRRConfiguration and it contains at least a default VRF
router with neighbors.
```

Author: Slightly altered: 

```suggestion
If `Accepted` is `False`, check that the `networkSelectors` field matches an existing `ClusterUserDefinedNetwork` resource, that the `frrConfigurationSelector` object matches an existing `FRRConfiguration` resource, and that the `FRRConfiguration` contains at least a default VRF router with neighbors.
```
